few historical moments of the last
century or as powerful or as visceral as
the assassination of American President
John F Kennedy may be difficult to
imagine in these hardened political
terms but JFK was much more than a mere
politician he was a star a beacon of
hope for the future of course all that
was shattered when he was gunned down in
Dallas Texas as we approach the 50th
anniversary of that shocking day anyone
old enough will no doubt recall that
moment with vivid clarity but none more
so than the bodyguard who still can't
forgive himself for failing to save the
president's life and a warning in our
story you'll see the full unedited
vision of the moment JFK was killed
November the 22nd 1963 and America's
Nightmare on Elm Street is about to
begin the assassination of President
John F Kennedy in Dallas Texas we got to
about this point on Elm Street and the
first shot rang out
he was sitting where the president where
the president were sitting I'm driving
down the most painful of memory lanes
with former Secret Service agent Clint
Hill
I saw the president moved violently to
his left and I knew something was wrong
he grabbed at his throat a lone gunman
fires three shots in six seconds and
mortally wounds the most dashing
president the United States has ever
known
Clint Hill is the body guard climbing
onto the back of the Kennedy limousine
50 years on he still hasn't forgiven
himself for not saving the president's
life
there's that feeling in my gut that I
should have gotten there in time I
should have been able to get up there
and I should have taken that turd shot
myself you should have taken the bullet
to the prison that's what I thought that
was your job
that's exactly it that was my job that's
why I have that sense of guilt
failure because I wasn't able to get
there in time it all began three years
earlier with so much promise a
charismatic young president a war hero
with a glamorous wife and a young family
and a wonderful way with words
and so my fellow Americans ask not what
your country can do for you ask what you
can do for your country the Kennedy
White House was an all-too-brief period
of political enchantment that came to be
forever known as Camelot
it was a whole new adventure for we in
the Secret Service as well as for all
the people in the United was a triumph
of the 60s really wasn't that the coming
to power of young people it was as the
president said in his inaugural address
it's a new generation
at the time Clint Hill was an ambitious
young Secret Service agent desperate to
stay on the presidential detail only to
be bitterly disappointed when told he
would be looking after the president's
wife I didn't want to be assigned to
mrs. Kennedy I had been with President
Eisenhower and I had seen how First
Lady's previously had operated weren't
terribly excited no they weren't and I
didn't want any part of that I want to
be where the action was and that was
always in the past had been with
President I stays until along with the
rest of the world with Cleveland Jackie
Kennedy was an entirely different kind
of first lady she was a wonderful
elegant considerate lady beautiful
classy beautiful and you called her mrs.
Kennedy and she called you mr. Hill and
that never varied Clint Hill was not
only Jackie Kennedy's buddy God but her
most trusted ally she spent more time
with him than with any other person
including the president oh he would
spend the summers in Cape Cod and then
perhaps go to Europe for a period of
time spent Christmas and New Year's and
Easter in Palm Beach Florida you live
the high life young man I lived a high
life but I was loving it on $12 a day
the president brought his wife home
after the death in November 1963 Jackie
Lee's recovering from the death of her
newborn son Patrick she decided to
travel to Texas with the president to
help sway votes in what would be a tough
upcoming presidential election
it was a huge event for the Lone Star
State and a security nightmare for Clint
Hill and the rest of the Secret Service
[Music]
pressing crowd open windows in every
building and the president's
instructions to the agents to stay well
back from his open car because he didn't
want it to appear there was anything
between himself and the people who were
there to see him how did you feel about
that well we all felt it would be better
off with someone on the car but we knew
that that was his preference and we
thought we could manage a situation
without being there
despite this presidential wish Clint did
ride on the Kennedy car for some of the
way such was the crush of the crowd but
coming to the end of the route through
Dallas he relaxed and hopped back onto
the following vehicle
and then we just went one block and then
we turn left onto Elm Street
and that put his right in front of the
Texas School Book Depository
on the corner of Houston and elm a lone
gunman named Lee Harvey Oswald was about
to start shooting from the sixth floor
of the Texas School Book Depository
I saw the president grab at his throat
and he moved to his left violently and I
knew something was wrong and so I jumped
from the follow up car ran towards the
presidential vehicle with the idea of
getting on top of the rear Lee car to
form a protective barrier behind
President and mrs. Kennedy to prevent
any further damage from being done as I
got close to the car sir shot was fired
and it hit the president in the head it
entered the beardless president's head
and it exited the upper-right quadrant
of the skull and blood and brain matter
and bone fragments came out of the wound
it came over the back of the car or mrs.
Kennedy and on myself
not knowing how many shots would be
fired or how many shooters were for that
matter until desperately tries to get up
on the president's car while I was doing
that mrs. Kennedy came out in the truck
she was trying to grab some of the
material it came off the president said
she's hanging over the back of the car
if she's right up on the back of the car
and she didn't know I was there and I
finally got up there and I got a hold of
her and put her in the back seat and
when I did that the president's body
fell off to its left into her lap his
head was on her lap and the right side
of his face was up I could see his eyes
were fixed and I considered it a fatal
wound and I turned and I gave a thumbs
down to the other agents in the car
immediately behind called the follow-up
car this appalling act of terrorism
happened right in front of bill and Gail
Newman
and their young sons we were looking at
the car and the first two shots rang out
it was on bang bang like that what did
you think at that moment I thought it
was firecrackers I'd never been around
gunfire and you know didn't didn't know
what it would sound like button when the
car got directly in front of us that
third shot rang out and you can see just
bits of flesh flying up in the air and
sort of white matter coming out of his
head and I mean it just it was so
shocking after racing to Parkland
Hospital and helping to carry the
president inside Clint Hill phoned
Washington I was trying to explain to my
boss in Washington what had happened and
the operator cut in and said mr. Hill
the Attorney General wants to talk to
you the Attorney General being Robert
Kennedy the president's brother that's a
difficult moment how do you tell his
brother but that was a problem he said
what's going on down there because he
really didn't know and so I explained
what the situation was then he said well
how bad is it
I did not want to tell him that his
brother was dead so I simply said well
it's as bad as it can get and that was
the truth and with that he hung up the
phone so then at one o'clock
Dallas time doctors came out and said
the president has died the president is
dead from Dallas Texas the flash
apparently official President Kennedy
died at 1:00 p.m. Central Standard Time
two o'clock Eastern Standard Time some
38 minutes ago
I was in the other side of the world
when I was a kid in Tasmania a school
kid and it was early in the morning I
remember vividly switching on a blue HMV
valve radio receiver and as the valves
warmed up slowly the voices came in and
told me that the President had been shot
I ran down the corridor I remember to
alert a largely disbelieving household
but as we gathered round television and
radio it soon became apparent that that
in fact was the awful truth that somehow
the history of the world had been
violently changed and our own lives in a
way would never be quite the same again
I think we lost our innocence it was
just a terrible thing to happen and and
it affected everybody the funeral of JFK
was held on the 25th of November 1963
was the third birthday of his young son
John who touchingly saluted the father
he would never know it is the saddest
when the saddest images of the century
ISM and standing there that day generals
to touch the privates all had a tear in
their eye
when they saw this young boy salute
their father I think everybody did
around the world the Dallas Texas as for
the gunman Lee Harvey Oswald no one
would learn why he shot the president
yeah there is
Oswald was infamously gunned down by
local nightclub owner Jack Ruby in the
Dallas police station but despite all
the conspiracy theories there has never
been any credible evidence to suggest
anything other than that Oswald acted
alone certainly that's what Clint Hill
believes okay Charlie this is it's
called a sniper's perch is where Lee
Harvey Oswald secluded himself or put
himself in a position to observe what
was going on
in the motorcade it took Clint Hill a
long time to come to terms with the
events of that day
despite being awarded for his bravery he
battled depression and alcoholism for
years after retiring from the service
only recently has he been writing and
talking about the assassination which he
says has been hugely therapeutic for the
lingering guilt I I still have that
sense that I should have been able to do
just enough to get there in time but you
can't go faster than a speeding bullet
and you can't turn back time no you
cannot it is said the death of President
Kennedy spelled the end of America's a
age of innocence
perhaps that's too simple and romantic a
view but it is a reflection of the mark
one man and his beautiful wife left in
the world and left in particular on a
long retired but ever loyal Secret
Service agent I do have some wonderful
memories they're not all obliterated by
the bad ones no there's more wonderful
memories than there are bad memories the
only problem is the one real bad memory
is a horrific one